Boundary Docs: Configure workers refactor (#3077)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/boundary/v1.0.x/content/docs/workers/registration/controller-led.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Register a worker using the controller-led method
description: >-
  Register a Boundary worker using the controller-led method. Generate an activation token on the controller and provide it to the worker configuration file.
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-08-10T22:18:18.000Z
last_modified: 2026-08-10T22:18:18.000Z
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# Register a worker using the controller-led method

In the controller-led method, you generate an activation token on the controller before you start the worker.

> You provide that token to the worker in its configuration file, and the worker uses it to authorize itself when it starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You provide that token to the worker in its configuration file, and the worker presents it to the controller for authorization when it starts.
```
Just to make it clear that the controller still plays a role

  controller_generated_activation_token = "neslat_2KrShA8kh6VUbJBYa4ZXUe7yRpPs2xKNYst2wqyvadQ6ooSZ4XQTfifKG4tNp2vhaAVeBSvHofWDNzbUYUyK2C8ypbYnx"
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

To avoid writing the token into the configuration file, you can read it from an environment variable or a file:

```hcl
worker {
  # Read the token from an environment variable
  controller_generated_activation_token = "env://ACT_TOKEN"

  # Or read the token from a file
  # controller_generated_activation_token = "file:///tmp/worker_act_token"
}
```

You cannot set the `name` and `description` fields in the configuration file for workers that use the controller-led method.
Among the registration methods, [external KMS](/boundary/docs/workers/registration/kms) supports those fields in the configuration file.
To label a controller-led worker, use the `boundary workers update` command after you register it.
Refer to [Update the name and description](/boundary/docs/workers/manage#update-the-name-and-description).

<Note>

  The activation token is single use.
  After the worker authorizes successfully, the token is unusable, so it is safe to leave it in the configuration file.

> </Note>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The activation token is single use.
  After the worker authorizes successfully, the token is unusable, so it is safe to leave it in the configuration file.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this should just be additional information at the end of the procedure.
